# Simulation studies in DDN3.0 paper

This repository is about the code to perform the simulation and draw the figures related to simulations for DDN 3.0.
The main repository of DDN 3.0 is at https://github.com/cbil-vt/DDN3.
The results of the simulation are saved at https://zenodo.org/records/10543473.

## Installation
Required Python packages: `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `joblib`, `rpy2`, `ddn3`, and their dependencies.

Required R packages: `JGL`, `iDINGO`, `glasso`, `huge`, and their dependencies.
We call the `huge` package to generate synthetic data. `JGL` and `iDINGO` contain peer methods.

Users need to Install R locally, and edit the path to R in `tools_r.py`.

```python
import os
os.environ["R_HOME"] = "C:\\Program Files\\R\\R-4.3.2"
```

## Experiments
Simulations for DDN 3.0 and JGL with different graphs can be performed in `exp_step1_batch.py`. 
The script below runs a simulation based on a 200-node graph with two scale-free subgraphs.
It also runs methods on a grid of lambda1 and lambda2 values.

```python
import numpy as np
l1_lst = np.arange(0.02, 1.0, 0.02)
l2_lst = np.arange(0, 0.16, 0.025)
graph_type = "scale-free-multi"
batch_run(l1_lst, l2_lst, n1=200, n2=200, n_node=200, ratio_diff=0.25, graph_type=graph_type, n_group=2, n_rep=20)
```

The simulation with imbalanced samples is in `exp_step1_batch_imbalance.py`. 
This script is similar to `exp_step1_batch.py`.
These results can be plotted by `exp_step2_analysis.ipynb` and the summary plot used in the paper is generated by `exp_step2_analysis_summary.ipynb`.
You can download the simulation results at https://zenodo.org/records/10543473 to draw the figures. 
Note that you need to change the path in `exp_step2_analysis.ipynb` and `exp_step2_analysis_summary.ipynb` to point the downloaded results.
The experiments related to DINGO are in `exp_step0_ddn_jgl_dingo.ipynb`.

The speed comparisons can be found in `exp_speed_comparison.ipynb`.
We found that there is negligible cost for calling R from Python.
In addition, the first time we call Numba accelerated code, like DDN 3.0, it will compile the code and it will take some time.
This only needs to be done once. Therefore, we record the time for later calls of DDN 3.0.

For more details, leave an issue, or email Yizhi Wang (yzwang@vt.edu).
